Have you ever received an email that you
knew 100% was written by ChatGpt? How
did that make you feel? Maybe you didn't
care at all or maybe you were a little
bit annoyed. This is a trend I've seen
happening more and more as I receive
emails into my inbox and notice that I
can almost instantly detect whether or
not they have been written by Chat GPT.
And I'll be honest with you, there's
been instances where I've received
emails like this and I felt a little bit
annoyed. So then I wanted to take a step
back and question, why does that bother
me? Should it bother me? I've had
anecdotal conversations with other
people asking them if they've noticed
this type of trend. And in the few
conversations I've had, other people
have that same shared emotion as I do.
So, the purpose of this video is to
identify what some of these emails look
like that are clearly being written by
an AI tool and how we can still leverage
AI to help us be more productive and
quicker, but keep our authentic touch
when it comes to communication. There's
no question AI tools like ChatGBT have
the ability to write seemingly flawless
emails that look on the surface to be
very professional within seconds. And it
is very tempting to simply ask a tool
like that, a simple prompt to write us
this communication which could save us
several minutes, maybe even an hour of
work that we would otherwise be using
our own brain power for. But from what
I've observed so far, it seems that the
reason some people feel annoyed when
they get an AI written email is that
they feel undervalued. They feel as
though you didn't put in enough effort
or your own thoughts and genuine
feelings into that email that this was
simply done by AI. Therefore, they don't
feel that important to you, the sender.
And in some instances, there's just a
clear inauthenticity
where you may communicate a certain way
and have sayings and ways that you have
previously written emails. And then when
AI takes full control of that, it sounds
like a completely different person. And
in some instances, people might just
assume that you're lazy. You couldn't
take the time and effort to do this
yourself. Therefore, you fully relied on
AI. And there actually is a little bit
of data to back this up. According to a
study published in the International
Journal of Business Communication, only
40 to 52%
of employees felt as though managers
were being sincere when their email
communication heavily relied on an AI
tool. So, if you're managing people at
your company and you're heavily relying
on these AI tools, keep in mind that
half of the intended audience may lose
trust in you and your position by
receiving those emails. What really led
me to dig deeper and shoot a video on
this topic was I was working with a
conference organizer. And one of the
requests that had gone out to speakers
was for them to submit their personal
bios. And in reviewing almost all of the
speakers bios, I noticed this trend.
Every paragraph started with the word in
and most started with the sentence in
this session. you can expect. And then
it went on to give the full paragraph.
And I thought, what is the odds that all
15 speakers
creatively in their head came up with
that exact same first line? And then I
went to chat GPT and I asked it to write
me a conference session description. And
sure enough, what was the sentence I saw
in this session? and it gave me that
information which was the clue that chat
GPT had helped out these other speakers
as well. And there are other clues you
can find when it comes to email
communication that might tip you off
that this is being written by an AI
tool. One of those is sentence
structure. As humans, we often vary our
sentence length. Sometimes there are
short sentences, sometimes there's long
sentences. AI tends to be similar
sentence length every single sentence
and it often relates to things in
threes. For example, the course was
engaging, insightful, and
thought-provoking. These AI tools often
mention three descriptors in the
sentences that they're using. From time
to time, it will also use words or
jargon that we don't really use that
often, but the frequency is pretty high
in these AI written emails where it's
like endeavor or pertinent or foster
communication. If you see those popping
up multiple times, go back in your email
history and see if that sender
previously always used those words,
that's probably a sign they're using an
AI tool as well. The point of this video
is not to tell you not to use AI. I
think AI tools are incredible and I use
chat GPT on a daily basis. But instead
of asking it to do the full
communication, put the technology behind
you. I want you to be the forward-facing
communicator, but chat GPT can help you
brainstorm. It can be your thinking
buddy to get you to these ideas. And
then once you have the ideas, you're
simply using its suggestions as a draft.
And then you are coming up with the
final copy with your own words that help
you articulate while leveraging the
productivity, but also keeping your
authentic self through communicating. I
hope this video, some of my musings on
chat GPT, pros and cons when it comes to
written emails, has been helpful. I'd
love this to be a conversation starter.
So, please let me know in the comments.
What are some other clues you've come
across that tell you that an email was
written by ChatGpt or another AI tool?
And do you care? Am I overthinking this?
Is it really not that big of an issue?
Let me know your thoughts. Keep the
conversation going. Thank you for
watching this particular video. Another
great video should be popping up on the
screen. And I have an exciting new link
in my channel description or video
description as well. And this is linking
to something called a stand store where
you can see some different offerings. If
you've ever wanted to choose a more
premium service to really accelerate
your public speaking growth, check out
some of these options, which include
joining my community, having me as your
one-on-one coach, or even having me
review one of your speeches. Thanks so
much for taking the time to watch this
video. I'll catch you on the next